############
Rule Staging
############

Rule Staging allows dynamic toggling of rules from a staging to production state, and vice versa.
Staged rules will only send alerts for historical retention, and the alerts will not be sent to any
user-defined outputs, such as Slack, PagerDuty, etc.

To ensure that new rules do not flood alerting outputs with a ton of potential false positives,
rules can be staged. After the initial staging period, wherein a noisy rule is tuned to limit
extra noise or false positives, staged rules can be promoted.

When Rule Staging is enabled, new rules will, by default, be *staged* upon a deploy of the
Rules Engine Lambda function.
See the `Skip Staging During Deploy`_ section
for more information.


*********************
Enabling Rule Staging
*********************
By default, the rule staging feature is not enabled. It can be enabled with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  python manage.py rule-staging enable --true

The change will be reflected in the ``conf/globals.json`` file.

For additional configuration options related to this feature, see the
`Rule Staging <config-global.html#rule-staging>`_ section of the Global Settings.

The initial implementation of the Rule Staging feature has a hard-coded 'staging period', or the time
a rule should remain in staging before being auto-promoted to send to user-defined outputs. This is
only relevant if the `Rule Promotion <rule-promotion.html>`_ feature is also enabled. The current
default is 48 hours.


************
CLI Commands
************
There are a few CLI commands available to make management of staged rules easier.


Rule Status
===========
The status of rules, meaning whether or not they are staged, can be determined with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  python manage.py rule-staging status

**Sample Output**::

  Rule                                     Staged?
    1: rule_001                            False
    2: rule_002                            True
    3: rule_003                            False
    4: rule_004                            False


Toggling Staged Status
======================
Staging a rule, or list of rules, is possible with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  python manage.py rule-staging stage <rule_001> <rule_002>

Unstaging rules, enabling them to send to all user-defined outputs, is equally as easy and accomplished
with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  python manage.py rule-staging unstage <rule_001> <rule_002>


Skip Staging During Deploy
==========================
As noted above, all new rules will be *staged* by default during a Rules Engine deploy when the
Rule Staging feature is enabled. There may, however, be occasions when all new rules should not be
staged during a deploy. To allow for this, the Rules Engine can be deployed with the following command:

.. code-block:: bash

  python manage.py deploy --functions rule --skip-rule-staging

This will force all new rules to send to user-defined outputs immediately upon deploy, bypassing
the default staging period. Alternatively, the ``--stage-rules`` and ``--unstage-rules`` flags
can be used (instead of the ``--skip-rule-staging`` flag) to stage or unstage specific rules only.


*********************
Triaging Staged Rules
*********************
Once a rule is in staging, alerts generated by that rule can be queried in Athena:

.. code-block:: sql

  SELECT 'rule_001' as rule_name, count(*) AS alert_count FROM alerts WHERE dt >= '2018-07-25-16' AND rule_name = 'rule_001' AND staged = True

.. csv-table:: Athena Results
  :header: "rule_name", "alert_count"
  :widths: 60, 10

  "rule_001", 96

To help automate triaging of staged rules, StreamAlert includes an optional Rule Promotion Lambda
function. This function can both send alert digests via email and auto-promote rules out of staging.
See the `Rule Promotion <rule-promotion.html>`_ page for more detail.
